= BasicDaemon

http://github.com/samullen/basic_daemon

A basic library for creating daemonized processes

This library works with Ruby 1.8, Ruby 1.9, and JRuby and is licensed under the MIT License.

== Installation

The basic_daemon gem is hosted on GemCutter (http://gemcutter.org). This
requires that you have http://gemcutter.org in your gem sources.

Install the basic_daemon gem: 

  sudo gem install basic_daemon

== Gettings Started

There are currently two ways of using the basic_daemon library: 1) Objected
Oriented; 2) Functional.

=== Object Oriented 

The basic idea here is to subclass BasicDaemon and overwride the "run" method.

  require 'basic_daemon'

  class MyDaemon < BasicDaemon
    def run
      foo = open("/tmp/out", "w")

      i = 1

      while true do
        foo.puts "loop: #{i}"
        foo.flush
        sleep 2

        i += 1
      end
    end
  end

  daemon = MyDaemon.new

  if ARGV[0] == 'start'
    daemon.start
  elsif ARGV[0] == 'stop'
    daemon.stop
    exit!
  elsif ARGV[0] == 'restart'
    daemon.restart
  else
    STDERR.puts "Usage: foo_daemon.rb <start|stop|restart>"
    exit!
  end

=== Functional

Rather than subclassing BasicDaemon, a block is just passed to the start method.

  require 'basic_daemon'

  daemon = BasicDaemon.new

  process = Proc.new do
      foo = open("/tmp/out", "w")

      i = 1

      while true do
        foo.puts "loop: #{i}"
        foo.flush
        sleep 2

        i += 1
      end
    end

  if ARGV[0] == 'start'
    daemon.start &process
  elsif ARGV[0] == 'stop'
    daemon.stop
    exit!
  elsif ARGV[0] == 'restart'
    daemon.restart &process
  else
    STDERR.puts "Usage: foo_daemon.rb <start|stop|restart>"
    exit!
  end

=== Arguments

BasicDaemon creates file to store the process ID (PID). By default, this file
is given the same name as the calling script sans the file extension and is
stored in the /tmp directory. Also by default, the directory the calling script
is working in is changed to the root directory ('/').

Each argument, :pidfile, :piddir, :workingdir, can be changed upon
instantiation of the class. 

==== Example:

Most Linux users will want to instantiate thusly:

  BasicDaemon.new(:piddir => '/var/lock')

== Copyright

Copyright(c) 2009 Samuel Mullen (samullen). See LICENSE for details

